Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-
Letters From Iwo Jima
IWO JIMA
How did those soIdiers ever manage
to dig out these tunneIs?
Let's get a rotation in here.
Hey. I found something!
IWO JIMA
1 944
Hanako...
We soldiers dig.
We dig all day.
This is the hole that we will fight...
and die in.
Hanako...
am I digging my own grave?
Today. I head for the post
where my men await.
I am determined to serve
and give my life for my country.
I believe I have organized
everything at home...
but I am sorry I wasn't able to attend
to the kitchen floor before I left.
I had all the intention...
but had to leave
without having the time...
and I am still worried about it.
So make sure to have
Taro take care of it promptly.
Damn this isIand!
The Americans can have it.
Nothing grows here.
It smeIIs. It's hot. There are too many
damn bugs. and there's no water.
This isIand is part
of Japan's sacred homeIand.
There's nothing sacred about this isIand.
Saigo.
We shouId just give the isIand
to the Americans...
and then we can go home.
Saigo!
What did you say. soIdier?
I said if we beat the Americans.
then we can go home.
You there. is that what he said?
Yes. sir.
I'm Kuribayashi.
WeIcome. GeneraI.
I am AdmiraI Ohsugi.
How Iong have you been
waiting here for me?
Three hours. sir.
Sorry to hear that.
They wouIdn't aIIow me to wire my arrivaI
after what happened to AdmiraI Yamamoto.
I understand. sir.
This is my aide. Lieutenant Fujita.
What's the matter. AdmiraI?
You don't Iook very weII.
It's nothing. sir. The water
doesn't agree with me here.
Sorry to hear that.
This way to your quarters.
AdmiraI. I want to make a round
of the isIand first.
ShaII I fetch a vehicIe?
No. Iet's waIk.
WaIking is good for the heaIth.
It might be just what you need. Ohsugi.
So that's Suribachi.
You unpatriotic...
no-good peasants!
Hey. stop it!
Stand up!
What are you doing?
These soIdiers...
were conspiring
with unpatriotic words. sir.
I see.
And. Captain. do you have
such an excess of soIdiers...
that you couId put two
of them out of commission?
No. sir.
Then stop beating them.
Deny their Iunch rations instead.
A good captain uses his brain.
not just his whip.
What is aII this?
AII this?
Trenches. sir.
Why are the men digging trenches here?
This is where the Americans
are expected to Iand.
Have them stop immediateIy.
But. GeneraI--
And. Captain...
make sure these men get proper breaks.
They Iook Iike they're from Mars.
Stop digging!
Just as weII.
My stomach has been
bothering me anyway.
A toast to GeneraI Kuribayashi...
a fine commander.
Better than sake!
I heard he Iived in America.
Maybe that's why he
doesn't want us digging trenches.
Maybe he Iikes Americans.
No. stupid.
He studied the Americans.
So now he knows how to beat them.
I heard from someone in the 204th...
that another generaI was
supposed to command the isIand...
but he didn't want the job.
So Premier Tojo gave it
to Kuribayashi instead.
Nozaki. you hear a Iot of things...
but your ears are fuII of wax!
Anyway. you can't trust anyone
from the 204th.
They're part of the Navy.
I think this Kuribayashi
must be a superb generaI.
Look...
we're not digging those damn trenches
in the sand anymore. are we?
This heat is more than I had anticipated.
This isIand is bigger than I thought.
I'm exhausted.
Ito. reporting for duty.
Thank you for coming right away.
How much air force
do we have avaiIabIe?
41 Zekes and 1 3 bombers. sir.
Is that aII?
In order to support Saipan.
we Iost 66 pIanes a few days ago.
We wiII have to reIy on support
from the Combined FIeet then.
Is this the current defense pIan?
And what about the Army troops?
Where wiII they be stationed?
I don't know exactIy.
They are under independent
command of CoIoneI Adachi.
You have not coordinated
your pIans with the Army?
According to Navy ruIes.
untiI the enemy Iands--
This is a reaI war!
You are aware of that. aren't you?
This wiII not work.
You are concentrating aII
your efforts on the beaches.
- Move the artiIIery to higher ground.
- But. sir. we just had them...
moved down to the beaches.
WeII. move them back.
Coordinate with the Army
and have them start immediateIy.
Fortifications at Suribachi are the priority.
I'm going to waIk some more.
- It's pitch bIack out there. sir.
- I know.
This one is troubIe.
Army commanders usuaIIy are. sir.
Another Ietter?
You know that the maiI onIy goes out
when there's a boat avaiIabIe?
I have a Iot of famiIy.
Then how come aII your Ietters
are addressed to your wife?
Nosey!
Here. Iet me do you a favor.
Otherwise. your Ietters
wiII never make it through.
Hey. what are you doing?
I used to work at the censorship office
in Tokyo before I was transferred.
You mean demoted.
''To Hanako: We soIdiers dig.
We dig aII day.''
No. no. no. This wiII never pass.
Give me that back!
There. You'II thank me
for this Iater. Saigo.
Next!
Good!
Are you bIind?
Can't you see the target?
Even my six-year-oId couId
shoot better than you do.
Do it again!
You're an embarrassment!
You caII yourseIf an ImperiaI soIdier?
Tonight you wiII cIean the boots
of your entire troop.
Go to the rear!
They shouId Iearn to cIean their guns
properIy. rather than their boots.
What are those tanks doing here?
Those are out of commission. sir.
They are waiting for parts.
- For how Iong?
- About a month. sir.
Taro. America is filled with cars.
I have to be very careful
when I cross the street...
there are so many cars everywhere.
Taro. are you behaving yourself
and listening to your mother?
I miss you.
These civiIians need to be
evacuated as soon as possibIe.
Yes. sir.
Hanako...
we have a celebrity here.
Baron Nishi. the Olympic gold medalist
in horse jumping.
He will lead the 26th tank regiment...
and has just arrived from Tokyo.
Nishi is very handsome. and there are
rumors of his womanizing skills.
But there are no women
left on the island to woo.
Lieutenant CoIoneI Nishi!
You brought your horse.
From Chichi Jima.
I used to be a cavaIryman myseIf.
you know.
Of course. I know.
I've been Iooking forward
to serving under you.
One who understands horses
the way I do.
When we used to ride horses
through the battIefieId...
those were the good oId days...
not Iike these mechanized contraptions.
I couId send for another horse...
and we couId ride together.
I'm afraid my riding days are over.
But teII me about this famous horse
of yours that you won the OIympics with.
My staIIion. Uranus.
Oh. yes. this horse has a fine back.
I bought him in ItaIy.
They were happy to get rid of him.
He was such a wiId horse.
No one couId tame the beast.
but I toId them...
such a headstrong horse...
is a perfect match for me.
Come dine with me tonight.
I feeI Iike having a drink.
I think that can be arranged.
How did you manage to get
the Johnnie WaIker?
I drank some aIready.
I'm sorry. This is aII we have.
That's fine. as Iong as we have this.
What is this empty pIate?
I have toId our cook that aII officers wiII
have the same rations and food as our men.
I'm sorry. but serving three dishes
is reguIation.
Oh. but of course we have the right to be
served more than three dishes per meaI.
You're absoIuteIy right.
When you think about it...
it is regrettabIe that most of the
Combined FIeet was destroyed.
We stiII have some battIeships Ieft...
but we have very IittIe striking power
from the air or sea.
Nishi. what do you mean?
So you have not heard about
the Mariana battIe?
AdmiraI Ozawa's carrier and boat pIanes
were destroyed.
The ImperiaI headquarters...
is deceiving not just the peopIe.
but us as weII.
If you want my honest opinion. GeneraI...
the best thing to do...
wouId be to sink the isIand
to the bottom of the sea.
And yet. you stiII came?
WeII...
I figured your men were going to need
aII the tanks that I couId bring.
This must be it.
Yes. the enemy must Iand here.
Run!
Like you were one of the Americans!
Go on! Which direction wouId you take?
Hey...
I think your generaI has gone mad.
Look at the gun he has.
He probabIy took it
from a dead American.
Maybe.
Break time is over.
Back to work!
Are you aII right. Kashiwara?
You Iook paIe.
I'm fine. It's just the damn water.
But...I...reaIIy...need to go.
There wiII be a major change
in our strategy.
We wiII dig caves in the Motoyama.
Higashiyama. and Suribachi-yama areas.
We wiII buiId these underground
fortifications. and fight to the end.
- What about the beach defenses. sir?
- Not needed.
But. sir. the beach trenches
are our first Iine of defense.
Without the beach trenches.
how do you expect us to win?
Hayashi. do you know how many cars
America produces in a year?
Five miIIion.
The Americans' technoIogicaI advancements
cannot be underestimated.
They wiII cross the beaches eventuaIIy.
If we waste our soIdiers there.
there is no hope for victory.
It is inevitabIe that men wiII die...
but I never heard of an isIand operation
without beach fortifications.
GeneraI. it wiII be a futiIe waste of time
to start digging tunneIs now.
We shouId force the enemy
near the isIand...
and Iaunch a pincer drive
from the sea and air.
I agree. That makes the most sense.
Ohsugi...
doesn't the Navy know?
The Combined FIeet has been compIeteIy
destroyed off the Marianas.
The isIand is now isoIated.
What's more. I received a new order from
the ImperiaI headquarters this morning.
The remaining fighter pIanes are to be
sent back to Tokyo to defend the mainIand.
Outrageous! How are we to fight?
We do not have time for discussion.
We shouId head back.
Dear Mother...
I have been commissioned
to a new troop today.
I cannot talk about this transfer now.
Take good care of yourself.
Look at this picture.
That's some fancy castIe.
You know who this castIe was buiIt for?
Someone who was aIready dead.
They must have had
a Iot of money back then...
to buiId a castIe Iike that
for a dead person.
Why are you reading that book anyway?
We're never going to war over there.
We'II be Iucky if we even get
a hoIe in the ground when we're dead.
Don't taIk about that. It's bad Iuck.
Is this the 31 2th?
That's right.
I'm Nozaki. This is Saigo.
Shimizu. you can put your bedroII there.
There's an empty space in the back.
Don't mind him.
His friend Kashiwara just died.
That used to be his spot.
But we are aII going to die.
That's the pIan. isn't it?
For our country. it is an honor.
Kashiwara died of honorabIe dysentery.
Shimizu. where are you from?
Kanagawa-ken.
Ozawa is from there. aren't you?
That's right.
Where were you trained?
Maybe we were at the same schooI?
No.
I trained in Tokyo.
I trained in Tokyo. too. Where?
The Koho Kimmu Yoin Yoseijo.
Hey...
why do you think they put
a Kempeitai in our unit?
I don't know.
He's not wearing the white armband.
He's not Kempeitai.
He went to the Kempeitai
miIitary academy.
Maybe he was kicked out.
He acts Iike a Kempeitai.
Look at his hoIster.
That's not standard issue.
He's been put here to spy on us.
Why wouId he spy on us?
Maybe it's those Ietters
you've been writing.
You shouId be carefuI.
Weed soup again?
Kuribayashi is conserving
our food suppIies for the battIe.
We'II be dead
before the Americans even get here.
And you wouId think that with aII my
war effort contributions...
we shouId be eating kasutera cakes
or sandwiches.
What?
I ran a bakery in Ohmiya with my wife.
Back when we couId stiII get sugar...
we soId ampan and kasutera cakes.
However. his Kempeitai brethren...
used to come and take
whatever they wanted.
For the war...
For the country...
Why bread?
We ran into those types
at our cIothing store as weII.
When we started making sandwiches...
they took those. too.
And when we ran out of meat
and just had bread. they stiII came.
EventuaIIy. they took aII of our
baking equipment for the metaI...
and we were out of business.
I shouId have been a fisherman.
It must have been hard on your wife...
without the shop
and without her husband.
TeII them to go away.
We have nothing to seII.
CongratuIations! Your husband
is going to war.
Thank you very much.
I'm happy to serve the country.
Prayers for your eternaI success at arms.
I beg of you! We have onIy each other.
This is not the time.
We have aII sent our husbands
and sons to war.
We aII have to do our part.
At Ieast you'II have a IittIe one
to carry on your name.
I can't eat with you Iike that.
What am I going to do after you die?
I'm not in the coffin yet.
The men never come home.
not even a souI.
They'II never Iet you come home.
Don't worry.
And now. with the baby.
Can you hear me?
It's Dad.
Listen.
Don't teII anyone
what I'm teIIing you now.
It's a secret.
Your dad...
is going to come home for you.
Hurry up!
The enemy approaches!
This is ridicuIous!
Why waste time digging these tunneIs?
They are aII going to die anyway.
At Ieast he conceded
to the piIIboxes on the beach.
You wanted to see me. sir?
Care for a drink?
You have been Iooking
quite paIe these days.
It's the water. It has
never agreed with me.
That's not good.
Why don't you go back
to the mainIand to recoup?
I have commissioned AdmiraI Ichimaru
to take your pIace.
We are wasting time
digging these tunneIs.
GeneraI. the isIand won't Iast
five days without fIeet support.
We shouId fight to the death.
The tunneI-digging may be futiIe.
Maybe the stand on Iwo wiII be futiIe.
Maybe the whoIe war is futiIe.
But wiII you give up then?
We wiII defend this isIand
untiI we are dead!
UntiI the very Iast soIdier is dead!
If our chiIdren can Iive safeIy
for one more day...
it wouId be worth the one more day
that we defend this isIand!
Ohsugi...
if you have an ounce
of pride Ieft as an officer...
I beg of you...
go back to headquarters
and ask them to send support.
So the rumor is true?
I couIdn't beIieve it.
I'm gratefuI to be Ieaving this isIand.
We may have had our differences...
but I'm truIy sorry to see you go.
GeneraI Hayashi. it is up to you now.
Kuribayashi beIongs behind a desk.
not commanding war.
I understand.
There are many of us
who agree with you. sir.
Listen.
The Americans are IikeIy to Iand here.
Crossfire positions wiII be here...
here...
and here.
The fact is...
we are compIeteIy
outnumbered in every sector.
But we have a great advantage.
Can anyone teII me what that is?
The Americans are weak-wiIIed
and inferior to Japanese soIdiers.
Very good. Shimizu.
Why is that?
They are not as discipIined...
and they Iet their emotions
interfere with their duty.
That is correct.
Here is the uniform
of an American medic.
He shouId be your target.
For Americans wiII risk the Iives
of many soIdiers to save this one.
Understood?
GeneraI. may I speak with you?
PIease keep an eye on
Major GeneraI Hayashi.
Thank you for your concern. Nishi...
but we don't have any time to waste.
We must think about what
we can do at this moment.
AdmiraI Ichimaru.
Reporting for duty. sir.
Excuse me.
Thank you for coming
on such short notice.
Jupiter!
Jupiter.
Yamazaki...
what are you doing just
sitting there? HeIp us--
I think he's writing about us in his reports.
He's just writing a Ietter.
It's been two months. Nozaki.
He wouId have reported us by now.
How can you be sure?
WiII they ever stop?
Day and night. day and night...
It's driving me crazy!
If the damn Americans
are going to invade...
why don't they hurry up and Iand?
Tako-Chan...
the four chicks that were born
two months ago have grown so much.
The mother chicken leads them
for food every day...
but they're giving me a hard time. picking
at the vegetable garden I have grown.
The fIeet of American ships
has Ieft Saipan.
So they are on their way.
Ready the troops.
Men...
the time has come
to show your true coIors.
As a member of the honorabIe
ImperiaI Army...
I trust that you wiII fight with honor.
This isIand is of utmost importance
to Japan.
Should the island fall...
the enemy...
wiII use it as their base
to attack our homeIand.
For the mainIand...
For our homeIand...
UntiI the very Iast man.
Our duty is to stop the enemy right here.
Not one of you...
is aIIowed to die untiI you have kiIIed
1 0 enemy soIdiers.
Do not expect to return home aIive.
I wiII aIways be in front of you.
Long Iive the Emperor.
Take care and be well.
I will fight courageously until the end.
in the spirit of Yamato.
My heart will always be with you.
Takeichi.
Every household is assigned a quota
of bag-making for the gunpowder.
I cannot help but get tense when I think
that these will be used in battle.
Taro and Yoko laugh at me for this.
Takako. on evacuation in Nagano.
is also doing well.
I pray for your safety.
Sincerely. Yoshi.
No one can shoot me now.
That's a nice beIt.
My wife sent me one. too.
Doesn't Iook Iike Mr. Kempeitai
has a thousand-stitch beIt. does he?
Maybe he thinks it wiII cIash
with his uniform.
He probabIy doesn't beIieve
in superstitions. anyway.
His mother made him one after aII.
- Maybe they're trying to sink the isIand.
- My head hurts.
How many ships do you think
there are out there?
At Ieast 30. Maybe even 50.
- They must be reaIIy cIose.
- I need to take a Ieak.
Don't go near the sewers.
Dysentery is spreading through there.
Where do I go then?
There is a pot at the end of the cave.
The shit pot is fuII.
Someone needs to throw it out.
If anything happens to that pot...
you'II be carrying our shit away
with your hands.
Is this some kind of a joke?
Why are you aIways picking on me?
Thank you. God. I take back
what I said before.
ShaII we commence fire?
Not yet.
The men wish to commence firing.
HoId your fire!
Hold your fire!
They wiII take the beach
in no time if we do not resist.
Wait untiI the beach is fuII.
Let's go. Commence firing!
Commence firing!
The guns of the Kitakubo unit
were destroyed.
AII the piIIbox units on the beach
have been destroyed.
However. aII other forces are intact...
and we estimate more than
1 .000 enemy casuaIties.
The piIIbox destruction was unavoidabIe.
OveraII. that is good news.
How are the men
hoIding up at Suribachi?
Forces are intact.
What is the enemy situation?
ApproximateIy 20.000 men and 80 tanks.
There has to be more than that.
They stiII have men waiting in the boats.
CurrentIy the enemy front extends...
between Suribachi
and the south Ianding...
and Chidori airfieId south.
Just as I thought... Suribachi
and the Motoyama airfieId.
They are making a two-pronged attack.
That's not enough! I need more ammo.
Take his pIace!
- The machine gun is bIasted.
- Use your rifIe!
Watch out! ImbeciIe!
I can't reIy on you.
Go send a report to CoIoneI Adachi
that we need another machine gun.
Hurry up!
CoIoneI Adachi is asking
for reinforcements.
We can't afford to send reinforcements.
TeII him to hoId out.
Shoot him!
- What's the matter?
- We're out of buIIets!
We are Iosing Suribachi.
AII is Iost. Request permission
to Iead a suicide mission.
No. You must try to hoId them off.
Do what you can to survive
and join forces in the north caves.
But. sir...
I have faiIed to hoId Suribachi.
Permit me to die with honor with my men.
No. CoIoneI.
This is an order!
Adachi.
Adachi!
Sir. Captain Tanida
requests machine guns.
It's over.
Suicide...
That's the onIy thing Ieft.
But--
Here. take this to your commander.
I heard GeneraI Kuribayashi
order CoIoneI Adachi to escape.
Quiet!
Escape is the coward's way.
Sit down!
Men...
we are...
honorabIe soIdiers of the Emperor.
Don't ever forget that.
The onIy way Ieft for us...
is to die with honor.
This is our fate...
to find our pIace at Yasukuni Shrine.
I'II see you there.
SoIdiers. fareweII!
Stop!
You shouId die Iike an honorabIe soIdier.
Look. Shimizu...
we can stiII join the troops
in the northern caves.
Our orders are to stay here untiI death.
I heard GeneraI Kuribayashi himseIf.
That's what he said...
over the radio.
It's true.
We can die here...
or we can continue fighting.
Which wouId better serve the Emperor?
Which one?
Where does this go?
It wiII take us cIoser to Motoyama.
Do you have orders to move back?
Where are the rest of your men?
AII dead.
It's the same with us.
There shouId be an outIet
somewhere near here.
Be quiet!
So you thought you couId bIow us up.
or burn us aIive. did you?
- Have we heard from Suribachi?
- No. sir.
Send a messenger!
Lieutenant Oiso has ordered us
to rendezvous at the east cave.
We wiII make a run for Motoyama.
There is no cover for two kiIometers.
It wiII be every man for himseIf.
See you on the other side.
If not on this earth.
then in the next worId.
Don't run with the herd.
That's where the enemy wiII fire.
Stay back.
That's cowardice!
There is no use for a dead soIdier.
Wait untiI the fIare is gone.
CrawI forward.
What happened to the messenger?
He never came back.
I wiII go to Adachi myseIf.
Motoyama's transmitter
stiII works. GeneraI.
Why not try there. sir?
Sir. these men retreated
from Mt. Suribachi.
What are your names?
Saigo. from the 31 2th.
Shimizu. reporting for duty.
You escaped from Suribachi?
How dare you!
It was your duty
to stay in your position untiI death.
You shouId have died...
with your feIIow troop members.
You are both a disgrace.
Get on your knees.
- But. sir--
- I said. get on your knees!
I don't want you to kiII
my soIdiers needIessIy.
Put down your sword.
Put it down!
What's going on here?
These men ran from Suribachi.
Lt. Ito. I gave the order that aII survivors
retreat to the north caves.
I am very sorry. GeneraI.
It's just...
Suribachi...
has faIIen.
Now that Suribachi has been taken...
the enemy wiII maneuver aII forces
onto the hiIIside.
We must move
our command center north. sir.
Ito...
fight for your faIIen brethren...
untiI the end.
Get up!
Major GeneraI Hayashi
is Ieading an attack.
We are to join him.
Kuribayashi's orders are
to remain in the caves.
Lieutenant Ito says Kuribayashi
is a weak American sympathizer.
We wiII take back Mt. Suribachi.
Where is Major GeneraI Hayashi?
We don't know. sir.
Who is in charge here?
I'm not sure.
Stay here untiI
I determine the pIan of action.
We're dead.
PuII back!
We'II get reinforcements.
Why didn't your regiment join the attack?
Don't sit here Iike rats!
Come out of your caves and fight!
Where is your commander?
We haven't received the order to attack.
Didn't you receive the order
from GeneraI Hayashi?
Kuribayashi countermanded
Hayashi's order.
There is to be no attack.
We wiII take back Suribachi...
with or without Kuribayashi.
There are aIready troops on the attack.
Get your men in order.
Lieutenant. may I remind you
of your rank!
Your disrespect for senior officers...
puts your men at needIess risk.
I suggest you go back to your cave...
or hand over your men.
Enough.
We'II do it ourseIves.
That's against reguIations.
That's the officer who tried to kiII us.
He doesn't care.
I won't go back.
I've had enough of cave fighting.
You men are now under
Lieutenant CoIoneI Nishi's command.
I wiII throw myseIf under an enemy tank.
I wiII take out one of their machines.
Hurry.
What is the status?
A thousand men were Iost...
in a night attack aIong Chidori airfieId.
Why? I have given them strict orders
not to kiII themseIves.
It seems that the order to retreat
was not conveyed to aII sectors.
Hayashi.
Damn you!
And the American advancement?
A battaIion is headed north and we
are fighting back aIong the west ridge.
Good. Once they cross the west ridge.
they wiII be surrounded on three sides.
This just arrived.
Read it.
From headquarters...
''We regret that we are unabIe to send
reinforcements to Iwo at this time.
We earnestIy hope you wiII
fight honorabIy...
and die for your country.''
Bring him in.
ShaII I finish him off?
No. Treat him.
But. sir--
Okubo. you wouId expect the same.
wouIdn't you?
Endo. treat him.
We are Iow on morphine as it is.
Sir. the Americans wouId not treat
a wounded Japanese soIdier.
Son. have you ever met one?
Treat him.
Where are you. American tanks?
Come and get me!
How is the prisoner doing?
He is awake. sir.
I wiII question the prisoner
for information.
Damn.
I've had enough of this.
I'm going to surrender.
Go ahead and arrest me.
I don't care anymore. That's what
you were put here for. isn't it?
To report treasonous thoughts.
I was put here because...
I was discharged from the Kempeitai.
Discharged?
I had onIy been in service
for five days.
Shimizu...
you must aIways be firm.
Any mercy and peopIe
wiII take advantage of you.
That's unpatriotic.
Go sort it out. Shimizu.
You do not have the ImperiaI fIag
properIy dispIayed.
I'm sorry.
My husband has gone to war
and I couIdn't put it up myseIf.
It is unpatriotic
not to have the fIag dispIayed.
If you heIp me. I'II put it up now.
Get that dog to shut up.
What was that. sir?
That dog is a nuisance.
It is disruptive of Army communications.
I am very sorry. sir.
Shimizu. Dispose of the dog.
We can't have a dog interfering
with important miIitary commands.
Take the dog in the back.
It's onIy a dog.
It won't happen again.
Take it out back.
Keep the chiIdren inside.
Hurry up.
Take the dog into the house
and keep him quiet...
and never Iet him out.
It's taken care of. sir.
Are you trying to make a fooI out of me?
If you can't even shoot a dog.
you'II never be abIe to handIe the Reds.
You are unpatriotic!
I was discharged for insubordination...
and sent here.
Don't Iook so gIum. Shimizu.
At Ieast now onIy the enemy hates you.
I don't bIame the dog.
Taro...
tonight I attended my farewell party.
The wives also attended.
so there was a lot of fuss.
Greeting all the ladies...
kept me from enjoying the food.
Is there any information
of the enemy's pIan?
No. it's just a Ietter.
It's from his mother.
''Sam...
I have maiIed you
a coupIe of books to read.
I hope that you Iike them.
Yesterday...
the dogs dug a hoIe under the fence.
They ran aII over the neighborhood.
By the time we found them...
the Harrisons' roosters were terrorized.
Don't worry about us.
Just take care of yourseIf
and come back safeIy.
Remember what I said to you...
aIways do what is right...
because it is right.
I pray for a speedy end to the war...
and your safe return.
Love. Mom.''
I'm sorry. sir. There is no more medicine.
It's aII right. I'm useIess now.
Go heIp the others!
Okubo. come here.
How are we on ammunition?
Not good. sir.
Our mortars have been taken out...
and we're out of machine gun ammo.
We have onIy our rifIes.
Okubo...
you are now in charge of the men.
We can no Ionger hoId this area.
You must guide
the rest of the men north.
Take whatever food and ammo
we have Ieft.
What about you. sir?
I'm tired of sharing this cave
with aII of you.
I'm a one-man show from here on out.
What are you taIking about. sir?
Your first order of business...
is to find some water.
Men...
do your best.
Do what is right...
because it is right.
Understood?
I wiII make sure that they send you
medicine and food.
It has been a great honor...
to serve...
under you.
Hand me my rifIe.
I'm sorry. Okubo.
Why am I not getting any reports?
Have we heard from AdmiraI Ichimaru?
- No. sir.
- What about Nishi or Hayashi?
- Send out messengers!
- We have. Many times.
None of them have come back.
You can't pIan strategy Iike this!
I have been thinking about
what Lt. CoIoneI Nishi said.
He's right.
I don't know anything about the enemy.
I beIieved that the Americans
were cowards...
but they weren't.
I was taught...
that they were savages...
but that American soIdier...
his mother's words...
were the same as my mother's.
I want to fuIfiII my duty
for the generaI...
and our country...
but I don't want to die for nothing.
What do you think?
You...
haven't Iived enough to reaIize...
what you are sacrificing.
WiII you surrender with me?
CarefuI.
They'II notice if we Ieave together.
You go first.
I'II make up an excuse.
After a whiIe. I'II teII them
I'm going to check on you.
We'II be gone before they even notice.
Pretend that you have dysentery.
Give me your dysentery Iook.
I guess that'II have to do.
Where are you going?
I've got dysentery.
You're going to surrender. aren't you?
If you are. take me with you.
- I've had enough of this war.
- Be quiet!
Where are you going?
He said he wasn't feeIing weII.
It couId be dysentery.
You two! Stop!
Sir. maybe they got spooked.
Miura. you're on guard.
Make sure we have no more deserters.
What unit were you with?
Higashiyama 314th.
Did you hear...
I heard that they wouId give you a meaI.
A meaI...
That sounds good.
I'm from Yokohama. too.
After this is over. you can come visit me.
Lieutenant!
Let this be a Iesson to anyone eIse...
who wants to surrender.
We need to get through the crossfire
to reach the north...
and join our forces at the front.
Listen.
We'II head for that cave
and make our way from there.
Don't waste a buIIet!
Not a singIe one.
Don't shoot reckIessIy.
These are Nishi's troops
and the survivors from Suribachi.
Are there no officers?
You aII did a good job making it here.
Fujita. water for them.
I'm sorry. sir. There is no more water.
I'm sorry.
At Ieast you can rest.
You Iook famiIiar.
You aImost Iost your head.
That was the second time you saved me.
The first time...
was the day you Ianded on the isIand.
Of course. I remember.
WeII. everything happens in threes.
Hanako...
This letter will probably
never get to you...
but...
it comforts me to write.
For five days. we've been
without water and food.
To survive...
we do unspeakable things.
There is no escape now.
But...
my only concern is for you and the baby.
Dig up some worms.
The battle is approaching its end...
and there is no more ammunition.
no more water.
All the survivors will engage
in a general attack.
I pray for the victory
and safety of the Empire.
I bid you farewell.
For the country.
I could not fulfill all of my duties.
Now that we have no ammunition.
it is with regret that we must perish.
You made it aII the way from Suribachi?
That must have been quite a journey.
You are quite a soIdier.
No. sir.
I'm just a simpIe baker.
You were a baker?
Any famiIy?
A wife...
and a baby girI born
Iast summer in Ohmiya.
I haven't met her yet.
It's strange.
I promised myseIf to fight
untiI death for my famiIy...
but the thought of my famiIy
makes it difficuIt to keep that promise.
A radio transmission from the homeIand.
For General Kuribayashi...
and his troops. who are fighting bravely
for our country...
a song will be sung by the children of
Nagano. which is Kuribayashi's hometown.
On the waves of the Pacific
down south from the Imperial City
a small lonely island floats
The fate of our Imperial country
lies in the hands of this island
Iwo Jima
As long as we stand
we shall feel safe. as the Imperial land
shall forever be at peace
We shall fight with pride
and honor at any price
Our proud island
Iwo Jima
Do me a favor.
Stay here and burn aII these documents.
and my miIitary chest.
Everything happens in threes.
We wiII make a generaI attack.
AIthough Japan has Iost...
one day...
our peopIe wiII praise your dedication.
A day wiII come when they
wiII weep and pray for your souIs.
Be proud to die for your country.
I wiII aIways be in front of you.
No more.
Thank you. Fujita.
This is an order.
You again.
I have one more favor to ask of you.
Bury me...
so that no one wiII find me.
Taro...
I will be home soon.
I'm glad to be going back to Japan...
but I'm a bit sad
to leave my friends behind.
I drove home...
but...
it's lonely driving all by myself.
Is this stiII Japanese soiI?
This is stiII Japan.
Be carefuI.
[ENGLISH]
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org